So I hope that you are here because you would like to know. About whether you should rewrite in Rust. As my own room monitor, I'm going to double check. Am I recording? I see-- I see a yes gesture, hooray. So we are probably live not only to the people here. In the room, but to everyone on the live stream,. And to posterity later on. So before we get going, I'd just like to know a bit more. About who's here in the room. That I'm here to tell you for this question. Should you rewrite in Rust? Hardly anyone. You don't make any assumptions. That's great. So who here thinks that I will tell you, yes,. Rewrite your code in Rust by a show of hands. Surprisingly few, maybe, maybe a dozen. And who here thinks I will tell you, no, no, no. Don't rewrite your code. About the same. Well, congratulations, you're right. So I am Emily Dunham. I'm from the middle of nowhere in Oregon,. And I work as the DevOps engineer for Mozilla Research,. I work on a bit on Rust's infrastructure,. That's part of research as well. So while I'm involved with and engaged. With the Rust community, a member of the Rust community. Team, I do a bit of Rust programming,. But I'm more of a compiler groupie than a compiler hacker. But that's OK, because I know a bunch of very smart people,. And asking them a whole lot of hard questions about,. What do you ask when someone says they want to rewrite? How can you tell when you should rewrite something. To come to the conclusions that I'm. Going to share with you in this talk? So I'm going to talk about whether you should. Rewrite your code at all, whether you should. Rewrite in Rust, and how to do that if it turns out. To be the right thing for you. Should is a value judgment, and all value judgments. The assumptions that I'm going to make here for us. To even be remotely on the same page. Are that I'm assuming that you're working on some code. I'm assuming that you're working with some other people. On that project. Probably some of them help you with the code,. Of that project. But you're not just going it alone. Is that people's time and happiness are ultimately. What you're optimizing for. You're going to basically try to do the things. That make your code, save people's time,. And make the people happy. It's also the colleagues that you're. Working with, both technical and non-technical,. And the people who use your product. So anytime we're going to call something good or bad,. It's striking a balance between what. It does for all of these different groups. So now that I've got that out of the way,. Let's talk about rewriting code. Rewriting has a bunch of different definitions. Some people are like, rewriting is. When you don't look at the old source. But no, I'm just going to say that rewriting is. When you had some code that tried to solve the problem. But you're going to say, no, I'm not. Going to use that code. I'm going to start new and do something. Different for that portion of the code. I'll also talk about refactoring. Differentiated from rewriting as trying to modify. What you already had in order to get to where you want to be. How much of your code base are you tossing out. And starting over on. To rewrite the body of this function for some reason,. Is highly constrained, but it gives you. And it can get done quite a lot faster. Just get rid of it. Just rewrite the whole thing and rest. Can be enormous has a much more greenfield,. Start a new, fewer constraints, implication to it. But you also get to reintroduce every bug. And the larger a rewrite is pretty obviously. The more time it's going to be taking. On your project. By what someone hopes to get out of it. Tackle a problem again from scratch. That I've identified are first, you. Want to learn the tool that you're tackling it in. You're like, I want to learn this new language,. So I'm going to write fizzbuzz in that language. So I know how it works. Then there's the motto of understanding a task. There is, wow, managing this memory is really hard. In a language that helps me with memory. To see how it works when it's working correctly. And finally, the one that you only really hear about. Is rewriting because you want to ship different production. Code to your users than you're shipping right now. So a rewrite in order to understand either the tool. Or the task is going to be somewhat costly. You're going to spend a bunch of time. Researching how to do it, writing that code,. And debugging the code until it works in the way. That you expected. Code is immensely more expensive. More people have to do research, coding, and debugging. With that code. If you're writing a thing that you claim will fit in. And replace something that's sort of working already. Deploying the code is probably going to need. To work with it. Plus, you get the opportunity to introduce a lot of new bugs. And you're going to have to fix them. And again, everyone involved, not just you,. But your colleagues, both technical and non-technical,. And the users of the product, are. Going to have to learn about the new system. That's starting to sound like we should never. You can get some huge benefits. Especially if you had previously. Been using a language or tool where performance is not. Or if you're using tooling where performance. Is the first priority, you can get radically. And writing the code in it. It can be really hard to find people. Who know and want to use some languages or some tools. So in some circumstances, switching can actually. Get you those people that you needed. To keep the project alive at all. So when you're thinking, oh, yeah, OK. It looks like I might want to rewrite this. Start by thinking about how you'll communicate about it. This is true. Not just of rewrites, but of any major code change. What the problem is figuring out what it is. Taught you in a software engineering 101. If you happen to find yourself in a class like that. What is the code supposed to be doing? What will be the consequences if I just leave it be? And if I'm going to change it, how will I. Know when I've changed it enough? How will I know when the problem is solved? Between what you think is happening. And what you think should be happening,. One or the other. Maybe you misread a document. Maybe you misunderstood someone's explanation. And you're defining it in a way that means there's. Obviously going to be a bug, like you're. Asking it to do something it can't. Or maybe there is a problem that's. Intrinsically a system, not to your assumptions about it. And it's just the system's architecture. Or the problem it's trying to solve. Is just not the problem that you have anymore. One of your dependencies is doing the wrong thing. You're going to have to go upstream and fix that. In order to bring what it does into line with what you want. Maybe it's the business logic. That a bug is coming from. But there are many other options. Because you can have your logic right and a tools. Problem and get a bug, you can have your logic right. The problem is that you're trying to solve. And where that problem is coming from,. It'll affect you because you're going. To spend a bunch of time on this. Have to learn what you changed. It'll affect whoever writes the docs, whoever. Advertises your product, and whoever uses the product. So in the theme of history repeating,. It's super important to talk about what you're planning. To do in order that people who've. Can volunteer you that information. And keep you from making the same mistakes. So ask people about the solution that you're trying to do. And how it's worked, what's worked well, what's worked poorly. I would like to rewrite this section of the code. In that language. If people just reflexively go, oh, no, no, don't do that. Know what you're proposing, but that sounds great. And one thing that stood out time and time again. When I've talked with people about the refactors. To the ones that they've failed at,. Has been that the rewrites and refactors that. Prefer small changes are the most successful. So that can mean, if you're doing a very big change,. To break the big change up into small, incremental,. Measurable ones. A small change, you could define it. To get the impact that you need. It's the least effort that you can put in. And still get what you wanted, which, if what you want. Is a major speed up, let's say, then. That could be a whole lot of effort. But still, don't do more than you have to. As you have to live with that. So basically, risks multiply. In the previous rewriting and rest talk. Today, where you have a certain amount of risk. You can take. If you take more than that, if you. Then the more gambles you add on, the less likely. You are to succeed. With the least risk that you can for the best odds of success. And I would like to stand on a small soapbox here. To talk about what happens when somebody comes into some. That they might not be super involved with,. And just says, I think you should rewrite your code. I think you should go rewrite that in rest. I think you should rewrite that in go. It's saying, well, I think that the work that you've. Been doing would be super easy to replace. It can't be that hard, right? Why do you even spend so much time on it? It's saying you don't understand the engineering. And fundamentally, to somebody knowledgeable,. You're saying something about yourself. So please don't do that. Rest kind of has a problem with this kind of people. I'm not sure. I hope none of you are in the room or watching. If you have done that in the past. And you're hearing this, please think about what. It's saying both about you and the language,. And consider not doing it in the future. So what should you do instead if you're like, wow,. These people need a different tool. And how you're going to bring them more good stuff. Than the inconvenience that you'd. Look at where their actual pain points are. Respect the amount of time that people. Of understanding the complicated problem. That their code is trying to solve that is encoded. If you offered it to them. Ask what they've done before, whether it's succeeded. And what you can learn from that. And basically try not to write code. Unless you're writing it for your own enjoyment. So let's talk in a bit more detail. About rewriting for the sake of understanding the code. It wasn't explained to me nearly as well. As I would have liked that you don't always. Have to push the code you've rewritten. To get benefits from having rewritten it. So I'm going to show you a couple of case studies,. But from them, I'd like you to see. What these people are doing right. They're picking either a familiar task. They're not introducing a bunch of new risks,. At once, and it sets them up for success. To change a small thing at a time. They've documented what they've learned, which. On their own experiences and continue leveraging. So one instance of rewriting in order. To understand the code base is Carol Nichols. Is a pretty expert Rust programmer. That she thought, wow, that's kind of slow. I wonder if Rust could make it faster. So she assessed it, took it away on her own,. That people can choose to use. Doesn't try to force anyone else to use it. But basically, picked the smallest component,. Which in her case was the library for compression. From the knowledge that was encoded in the old version. Another instance of rewriting to understand code. Is a project that Bart gave a talk about at the Portland. Rust meetup, which was advent of code. He's not going to anyone and telling them, hey,. You should ship these Rust solutions. He's just rewriting to understand. And can take that knowledge about how to handle memory. And how to handle safety that he learned from Rust. So with that out of the way, a lot of the time,. When you talk about a rewrite, you. Are talking about the problem where production code isn't. Where you want it, and you need new production code. For some reason. So the first thing to ask is always, can we. Solve the problem in the current language? The perks of your current language, you already know it. In a language whose strengths match up. To write the algorithm in the way. And a huge perk is that the existing code describes. A lot of bugs that have been fixed over the years. About the problem. So the better you can leverage that,. The fewer reintroductions of bugs that you'll have. So there are times when you think,. When you could actually refactor it in your current. Language and be fine. Here's a few common excuses. Can you find and refactor the hot code. Of your current language and tooling? And can you find a faster implementation. Of your current language or your current runtime. If your current code is confusing,. In a different language is just gonna end up. How it got that way and fix it. And then if you think you're going to have. To change languages eventually,. Where you're going to interface with the new language. And often by singling out for the problem pieces of code. That you wish were in a different language. And documenting extremely clearly everything around them,. You can reduce a lot of the ambiguity. That was causing you problems to begin with. In some other language is that people are bored. Of the existing one. If you have a group of people who are gonna get bored. With one language, what's to say they're not gonna. Get bored with the next one. So a rewrite is not gonna solve your problems there. Some ways that can sometimes make people get less bored. Are give more recognition and kudos. For the contributions that people are making. Of making changes you don't need. Have people speculate or research. What those costs would be. And potentially make it more fun to fix the things. That you wish they'd be spending time on instead. And you're seeing well I can get up to this local maximum. But that's the best we're gonna be able to do. To get even further than that with potentially different. So can rest solve your problem? Who here knows a little bit about rest by a show of hands? So about half the room. Who here has worked on rest code in some capacity? So about maybe 10 or 20 people. So I will go through what rest is. And when you'd want to use it for both the benefit. Of those who haven't had the chance to work with it yet. And anybody on the stream and the future recording. Who will be a little bit curious. So rest goals include memory safety basically. In any language that lets you manage memory. There's a bunch of rules that the program is supposed. That you're supposed to follow as a programmer. Rest shoots to be as performant as C. Which means basically you can get the same code. To run on the machine regardless of if you write it. In the way that makes the most sense to a machine. Or in the way that makes more sense to a person. So the higher level abstractions won't slow your code down. That you rely on, no garbage collection or any of that. From garbage collection about memory use. But those are calculated at compile time. Where you might have a faster compile. But the occasional garbage collection. Hiccup in a GC'd language. To connect with when you need finer grain control. Than your present, than higher level languages. So when you get started with Rust,. Except sometimes you don't and this kind of thing. And that's because Rust covers a lot of space. By offering you a lot of different choices. The first choice you'll get is,. Do you want stable rest or nightly rest? The stable rest is always backwards compatible. For five or 10 years at a time for your application,. Rust is probably not going to be the best choice. Nightly rest on the other hand. Is all of the bleeding edge features. That we're trying out. We're not sure if these are going to work. We're not sure if the nightly is going to work. So all stable code should run on nightly. If it doesn't have it's a nightly bug. But there's a lot of features in nightly. That won't necessarily run on stable. Basically write and stable rest for as long as you can. But you may find a dependency that requires you. To use nightly and it's very easy to use both of them. At the same time on your computer. Usage to prove that there's no errors being made,. That you're not let's say letting two different parts. When they shouldn't that kind of thing. Whereas unsafe says this is a circumstance. So if you see Rust code with some unsafe blocks. That unsafe is a hint that you should stare harder at that. To make sure it doesn't have it's not doing. Anything you wouldn't want it to. When you're starting to make your own crate. If you're going to be integrating your Rust code. A library because it can just be called into. In a minute. Which dynamic linking says so with either. Your depending on some libraries that other people have written. With dynamic linking you say I'll just point. At the libraries elsewhere on my system. A copy of the bits of the library I need to my program. So dynamic linking will give you a smaller program. That's a bit less portable across machines. And across systems. Static linking will give you a bigger program. That's a lot more portable. And our current language just can't target it. But Rust can is your problem statement. Then a rewrite in Rust might be a great idea. Tooling ecosystem or a tooling ecosystem. From a systems programming background. And feels very familiar to people coming. From an application programming background. So when you're first getting Rust. Bear in mind if you're listening to this later on. Than the beginning of its life cycle at this point. So it's worth doing a quick search. To see whether the features have been integrated. Into cargo which brings us to cargo Rust's package manager. And by package manager I mean it's the thing. That builds your project, makes sure you have. If you need it to and we'll let you publish. If you'd like to share it with others. Cargo can handle multiple versions. Of various dependencies when you want it to as well. And then in terms of actually writing your code. You've got Rust format which basically codifies. A lot of recommended style guidelines for Rust code. And will rewrite your code to conform. To those style guidelines if you want it to. So if you're writing some Rust you're a little bit. Worried about sharing it with more expert people. And they'll tell you how it looks. And help you fix it before anyone has to look. So if you're learning Rust, check out the docs. Restline. Org,. So with that, that's the super high level view. In the industry that have rewritten pieces. Of their code in Rust and what they've learned from it. And I'm gonna show you two case studies. And they have a lot in common. First they isolated a very specific problem. That they wanted to solve and they avoided rewriting code. They identified that problem based on the risk. That it was posing them essentially. And they made sure that at the end of the rewrite. They would be exposed to less risk. For testing the Rust code as well as the other code. And for shipping that Rust code. That went with the other code that they were working on. So that workflow has to come first. Because without it you can't really iterate. On Rust code that does complex things. And remember the goal is to make the small changes. One at a time to get where you want to be. They had a small expert team of people. Doing the Rust part at first because the communication. Overhead when you're iterating and trying new things. And trying to explain, well we tried that. They made the first small changes. To make sure they could ship Rust. And see how Rust really performs in the wild. And then once they have that pipeline. They can proceed to add it wherever they think. That it's the right solution. So, and they do educate the larger teams. Working on the product about the rest work. That they've done but they put that off. They don't try to keep them up to date. To opt in and watch because again. That communication overhead can be huge. So, the first case study I'd like to look at. So, you can see there's several talks that I'll link. Because I only have about 45 minutes here. And I'd like to give you guys some time. Their first Rust service was a load balancer. That would let them send some requests. To the existing microservice. Of how they, once they had that load balancer in place. And they could send some of their requests. Some of their performance bottleneck code. As a Rust microservice. How to get Rust into their ecosystem. They ran the Rust in parallel more or less. As I understand it with their existing microservice. For that for a while to make sure it was okay. And then they switched over to the Rust one,. Shipping Rust in Firefox through Project Quantum. Which is a huge scope of engineering work. That went into this, but I like the summary. That Lin Clark gave of it. Is flying because the top priority was. Don't break Firefox, don't break Firefox for the users. Something new and that's why a lot of the companies. On something instead of rewriting something existing. You can check out the Friends page and if you look. At the way that the various companies use Rust,. Relatively few of them are rewriting existing code. Compared to building the new things as they need them. That are building a fresh instead because the rewriting. Requires a huge amount of backwards compatibility. So, to talk a bit more about Quantum though,. Are we going to ship any Rust code. To ship a tiny URL parser in Rust to run alongside. The users will never see that there's any Rust code. In their browser, but we can test our build system changes. To make sure that it will build. And then, once they've made that tiny first change. To verify that they could ship Rust, they proceeded. To port components of an experimental browser engine. So, they made small changes a little at a time. Did they bring in the rest of the engineering team. If you'd like to hack on these components. Now, we'd really encourage you to start learning Rust. As opposed to trying to work together on it the whole time. So, what's the techniques for rewriting your Rust code? Basically, if you're rewriting, you're not throwing. Sincerely recommend not to do in almost all cases,. You're rewriting a function or a microservice. You probably are going to need to use foreign function. For just about as long as C has for calling some language,. Which we call the guest, in your case,. We call the host, that's the language. That your project's written in. Out there and it's also, you can check the first edition. And second edition of the Rust book for more on this. So, I'm going to show you a super tiny example. Of FFI to do some math from Pearl to Rust. There's going to be four files. And what metadata the Rust has. And the make file builds the Pearl code. And runs cargo to compile the Rust. So, your cargo. Toml, you say what your package is. And you give it a library name. Because we don't really care about portability. Across platforms for a small example. Because you need to make sure your function. Has the same name as it has here,. To make sure that it can be called from your other code. And you're just going to take an integer. So, in your Pearl code, you will use Pearl's FFI mechanism. In pretty much any language. To bring in that function and make it available. To your code, and then you will call that FFI function. With your input, and when you call that function. With your input, it will run the Rust function. And then you can do whatever you want. With it in this case, output it. So, it's really not as much boilerplate. As you might be afraid of to just call a little bit. Of Rust when you want to. The make file works on Apple and Linux. And will just run cargo build to create the Rust. And then run the Pearl when you need to. So, that's FFI in a tiny nutshell,. And the other thing you might need. If you're building portable code is static linking. You can make a crate of the type static lib. And you can use the muscle library in lieu of libc. Because muscle is designed for static linking,. So it's easier for the compiler to stick. Whatever function it was you needed. Into your code that you're emitting. To also recompile them with muscle. Because your dependencies will be included. When you compile as well. So, if you can FFI from your host language. To your target language,. And if you can statically link that Rust. That you're FFIing into. So it doesn't drag any extra dependencies along,. For basic rewriting sections of your code in Rust. That you might find fun and interesting. If you're using these languages. Which lets you write Ruby in your Rust,. If you're working with Node. Js, check out Neon. And if you're basically, if you are Mozilla. To work with Rust code, BimeGen exists. So, that's rewriting in Rust. In a very small 45 minute nutshell. If you have questions about rewriting in Rust,. First about rewriting parts of your code rewriting in Rust,. Check with your project and your mentors first,. As a technical one whether you're going to rewrite. For how you can integrate with other languages. And when you get to your Rust questions,. Ask on IRC or ask on the Rust users forum. That you have a very high level question for. Directly if you need to. If you'd like to talk to me,. And I would like to take the last five minutes. To be a little unusual for this conference. I'm not going to encourage questions,. Of rewrites and of rewriting code. Or fun that you've had with Rust. Just as a bit of a chance to share. So it looks like we've got about five more minutes. Till the cutoff time,. So would anyone like to share anything? (Audience applauding). We've got one up here and one over there. But I just, there was some code. For implementing a sort of LDAP authentication. And a very old version of LDAP. So I re-wrote it as middleware. So that it could work to support other. So it could work to support,. And other systems that were expected particular schemas. And well, it worked, it was successful,. But it took more effort than I expected. - Yeah. - Sounds like that might have made it a lot easier to test,. We've got a story or a question over there as well. Oh, go ahead, sorry. - So I'm rewriting an embroidery library in Rust. And there are a couple of projects that you didn't,. One of them is Corode,. And converts it into Rust. And I found that really useful. - Absolutely, yes. As I understand. But if you have a big chunk of C. Into unsafe Rust, Corode is your friend. - So that's almost mine. I've got three large chunks of C code. - That is a fantastic question. There are a few things you could do. If the code is public,. Who are being sort of rewrite trolls on GitHub. Who say, you should go rewrite that thing. And then hop into their issues and say,. If this project doesn't want you to rewrite it,. Post on the REST users forum. Frankly, attempt to do it. Do it however poorly. And show your attempt at the work far and wide. 'Cause often a poorly done thing. Will goad people into offering fixups. In a way that a request for advice just doesn't. So some of my greatest success with writing things. In languages I'm not familiar with. Has been from writing it very poorly. And showing it to people who are experts in the language. And saying, I tried, pull requests, welcome. So those are my suggestions for you. You might also find someone in the room afterwards as well. So any other stories or questions? Looks like we've got about one minute left. One back there. - I had a, oh, I have a very large Perl script. Of about 17, 000 lines and I had someone come to me and say,. They would have worked with our system. And I said, well, I'm not gonna do it. Because it's not what I support. And they came back and they said, well, here you go. By something that took 30 seconds to run,. Now takes five seconds to run. So you just let people do things. And it helps and everyone benefits. - That is absolutely the perk of public code. So with that, I'd like to wrap it up. And say thank you all very much for being here. I would strongly recommend attending next talk tomorrow. If you'd like to learn some more rest. And we have a little conference. - And we have the speaker guest. Thank you very much, Emily. I can tell that by your clarity and your diligence. That you must be an excellent engineer. And if you ever wanna come to work on the projects. That I'm organizing, we were just in that section. But in totally different branches of the organization. And thank you LCA for having me once again. (Audience applauding).
