It's random code here, and so when it's discussed, my preferred architecture is more or less in a Spring Boot application, and I am talking about a controller service repository setup, and in this case, I have a showcase of how I would set up a very bare-bones particular symbol example, and this is actually not going to be running because we don't know how to have a database set up, but I'm just going to showcase to go through all our elements, and of course there's going to be a link in the description, we're going to actually have a look at our repository, so I just go through this yourself, but there's actually quite a few different components or less. So as mentioned, this is, at least I would call it, a controller, service repository, pattern, architecture, depending on who you ask, and as a base set up I would have like four packages, I would have my API, it's going to be containing my controller part, which is going to be the one that's going to actually be the rest endpoint of our Spring Boot application, and have a persistence, which is going to handle our repository, so our connection to the database, and a service package, which will handle all the manipulating of data and all the, like, the domain logic. So starting from the button up, inside persistence, I would have a repository and an entity package, where inside my entity package, have a user class, where this user class will be matching one to one, a table in a relational database. So in this example, we have a very simple user class, having some auto-generated ID, a name, a last name, and an H. And these will then be matching exactly the set up in the database. And because it's annotated with the entity, and matching the database, we can then use a user repository, and what I like to use the JPA repository, annotated with that repository, and then taken in a parameter of this repository class, it's going to be using the user entity, matching a table in the database, with an ID of type long. And what this then allows us to use either create like custom SQL queries, but also use this Spring JPA functionality, allowing us to create a project like this, assembly, doing find first by ID. And it automatically knows that it needs to look inside our user table, and extract by ID. So this makes the process a bit similar, and we actually allows spring boot handle some functionality. But there's a note, and a table repository, and it's going to be an interface. Then next layer, more or less would be our service layer, where in this case, I would have a simple user service. This user service then have a private final, user repository instance, object. And note, we are auto wiring. So we are dependency injecting our user repository using Spring Boot. And this is a construction injection, and one thing to note, a sort and a comment once is that I have this auto wired on the constructor, with the new of, which actually in the new version of spring boot is unnecessary. But I like it because I think it makes it very clear. At least we can see that this is auto wired. So we are dependency injecting our user repository, using Spring boot. But once again, this could be removed, and it wouldn't change anything. We then would, for a very simple example of just getting a use by ID, have a user request, or get user by, get user dto by ID, which then simply takes in a long ID, calls our repository. And the note, we would have our user dto, as we have actually returning, because our user entity is matching the exact state of the database, which then might also this kind of optional. But I'd like to use this to very clearly showcase what data we would like to return in our given input. So what we in this very, very simple choice to do have our user entity from our database. It's retrieved using our APA query, we then return a user request, or using a builder. And then simply, the main difference in this case, again, it's very simple. But our use entity contains an ID, name, last name, and age. But would only like to return the name and last name. So we only returning these two attributes. So we extract them from our entity, bring our user request is your which kind of like our next element inside our API area, which then have only the element would actually like to return. So as mentioned, we then have our API area having our controller and our TTO, it's your assembly, a data request of data trans object. So very clearly, what we actually returning our controller, then again, have an auto wired service, or user service in this case, again, construction injection, also wide, not needed, but like it, we then have our risk controller, and to your risk controller, we define the base mapping of all our endpoints inside this risk controller. And then this specific get mapping for this get mapping is going to be slash slash users, slash ID. And then take a variable. Our law ID pass through our URL. And it then return a response entity. So just an entity defining the status with a data object, and this case, our user is TTO, which is then retrieved from our service. So we're going through our repository, get an entity from the database, through our service, modify the object as needed for the controller, which then returns TTO. And one last folder I haven't mentioned yet, but this case is not very necessary. But sometimes we might need to do a lot of modifications from our entity to our request is your and then we might use some kind of model, which more or less is just some kind of domain object, which is used to manipulate data. In this case, it's very unnecessary. But I just want to add it to have it here to know that sometimes it might be easier having these, like, extra big. This case is also not necessary to have use as well. But we might have some kind of like helper models to help with different kind domain logic. This case, again, it's not very necessary. But just to sum up, this is the basis of our. Controller, service, repository, pattern, architect, and spring food. And one thing to note, this is like the lowest part of the architecture. And like a bag, and we might have this in the end, either a single service, you might have it on a monolith. So in the larger system, again, it, this becomes a bit bloated, because if we have multiple controllers, we'd add them. Inside controller, insert service, so we'd end up having both user controller, maybe a off controller, money controller, login controller, I don't know. But we would just add them inside each other, so to some point, it's going to be a bit bloated. This architecture might also be a bit more problem in some kind of like a microservice, we have a microservice, one path of controller, service, and repository. Awesome kind of component set up using Java. But whatever, I think it's still very good to have a basic understanding of this kind of like three layer architecture. Off our controller. Assistance and service. So if you enjoyed this showcase of how we should all could structure our basic spring food application, please leave a like and subscribe, and I wish you all a wonderful day.
